[Music]
hello and welcome thank you for popping
into my channel if you are new here
please like And subscribe for me if you
find this content helpful smash that
notification Bell so that you don't miss
out in the next video
comment below with anything you need
help with or topics you'd like me to
cover and check out my website
consultingninja.tech with that out of
the way let's get to it we're gonna have
some fun with svelte kit forms I've done
some videos on some very specific pieces
of forms but I want to make sure to
cover both requests that come in and
also some other functionality that I
have not covered Force felt kit forms
are very important this is how we
interact with our users primarily in our
applications and so we want to make sure
that we have a really good handle on how
to use these
I have a really basic application here
just has a form with a few Fields you
can enter in some information and then
we're doing a little bit of checking
conditional checking in the plus page
dot svelte so I can go ahead and enter
in some values here and hit submit
and it just spits back the values that
we send it as well as some additional
pieces of information the type of
response that we got there's a Boolean
value here and I'll show you that in
just a minute but you want to pay
attention that what's happening when I
click submit is the parameter slash
question mark slash Act is triggering
it's a full page reload happening
and that is because that's what happens
when you submit a form
so let's take a look in the plus
page.server.ts I've had some requests
come in to go over the types that exist
in svelt kit for form actions and I want
to make sure that we cover those because
they are important so looking at the
plus
page.server.ts I have one named action
in this file it's called act I'm also
making use of the fail method that's
felt kit provides this is a really easy
way of handling form actions handling
the error States anyway so if you're not
familiar let's just walk through this
again this is not including any types
just yet but we will get to those in
just a minute I want to start with what
it looks like without them and then
we'll kind of layer them in one piece at
a time so that everybody understands
what's going on so here I have one
action it's called act it's an
asynchronous function if you're not
familiar with what this is this is a
super easy way of getting your form data
out of the request inspel kit you just
do a request.form data and then any
inputs that you have in your form you
can just do a data.get and then put the
name of the input in there and you can
get that value out super easy you'll
notice that this is a typescript
application and so I'm getting the type
value here the first name is not a
string it's of type form data entry
value so keep that in mind that's going
to be important in just a minute
I'm taking those pieces of information
out and then I'm creating an object with
them
and then here we're just doing two
checks if the age is equal to
Old AF that then we're going to return a
fail and set this Boolean value of too
old to true if the first name is equal
to Dave and just throwing this out there
I don't have any problems with the name
Dave I just needed something and so I
put that in there there's nothing going
on there I don't have any ill feelings
towards any Dave's if there's any Dave's
watching this if either of those things
are true we're returning a fail which is
a method that takes a status code and a
piece of data that you're sending back
otherwise we're going to return this
object
okay so let's start layering in some
types the very first thing that we need
to do let's go ahead and create a type
for this object that we're creating
since that's our own our own object
let's make a type for it so you can do
interface or type it doesn't really
matter these days I'm just going to call
this my data
and we're going to need one for each of
these things so
let's go ahead and we can just copy
paste and
do it like this so we're going to have
two old is a Boolean
a type is going to be a string
the first name is going to be
a string
we'll see if you guys are paying
attention
this is going to be a string because
those are what people are typing in
right and then age is going to be a
string
or a number because we have
the age ranges our numbers and then we
also have a string value of old AF so
that would make sense right so let's go
ahead and put that type on our my data
and what you'll see here is it's yelling
at us because
first name last name and age are not of
type string and this is not of type
string or number those are actually
typed already now those are form data
entry values coming from svelt kit so
inside of our any objects that you're
creating off of those pieces of data if
without doing an explicit conversion you
can just call these
form data entry values
just like that
and there those red squiggles go away so
that is the first little thing the other
thing is we need to import some types so
we have to say import types even though
these are coming from actually this same
location as the function we have to be
specific in what it is we're importing
and so we're going to import types and
the types that we're going to import are
actions
request event
and action failure
and we're going to import those and this
actually should be
capital A we're going to import those
from like I said the same spot so we can
just copy and paste this
import
that's not an S it should be import type
from so let's start layering in the
types that are available so the very
first one that's available is actions
and what this applies to is our actions
here so what this is is of type actions
whoops
export const actions equal to all of the
actions that we have in our application
and the type actions is the shape of
that export
so that's the very first thing that we
want to make use of
the other thing that we have that we
want to make use of or you may want to
make use of is the request event so one
of the things that an action has access
to is the request event that's coming in
and you can see that it's actually
seeing it there but we can put they type
explicitly just like that so put the
colon just after the destructuring there
and then put your request event in there
so that's super helpful but let's keep
going what are we returning from this
well we have a few choices
first of all is this is a promise that
we're returning so you could return a
promise any just like that and say we're
returning a promise and any data type is
on on the table we don't really care
what
but since we have a data type defined
and that's what we're going to be
returning whether it's a success or
failure then we can say well we don't
want this we want this to be more
specific so what we're going to return
here is my data
and right away you'll see that we're
getting some red squiggles and we're
getting them in a few places this fail
object is not of type my data so that's
the first problem and the next problem
is that this little object doesn't meet
the criteria so since we're putting this
a default success object together we can
get rid of this and solve this problem
by just returning that constant that is
of type my data
and that one will go away but what about
these ones well that also is pretty
straightforward svelte kit has a action
failure type that we can make use of
inside of our promise so we're going to
return a promise whose unwrapped type is
either going to be directly this my data
type
or and we can come in here and just put
the or it's going to be an action
failure
but you need to give this a little bit
more information and in order to do that
you just again put some an extra pair of
alligator teeth in there
and say
my data so it's going to be an action
failure that returns
my data
makes sense right
but why is it giving us squiggles
well this is some typescript stuff and
what it's saying is index signature for
type string is missing on our interface
what does that mean
basically what it means is that our
interface needs a way of allowing for
additional key values and we can do that
really easily by just adding one more to
our interface and it's going to be a
bracket
key of type string
and a value of any
and now we can come up and see that red
squiggle goes away we have no red
squiggles in our application in our plus
page.server.ts file anymore and we have
everything
typed out we have our actions typed out
we have our request typed out we have
our return type for our action typed out
in a promise whose unwrapped value is
either going to be my data directly or
it's going to be an action failure whose
object type that we're returning is of
type my data so that is how we type out
our form actions in sveldkit I hope that
that has been helpful for you let's go
play around a little bit more let's now
put some default values in here so if I
say I'm Dave Johnson and I submit you'll
see what's coming back is that object
with a type of fail
and we're just spitting that out here at
the bottom I've got a div and if form
then stringify that whole form and just
spit it out on the screen and up here I
also have an additional check so if I
choose the old AF option here in my age
range and submit you'll see that I have
some conditional rendering that just
says nice try Boomer
so that's pretty cool and that's fun
that was a good time
I want to show you guys one other thing
here
that's super important and that is the
use in hands
and what use enhance does it's a way of
enhancing our forms even more
the way that I look at this is this way
if I'm creating an application I am
assuming that my users are going to have
JavaScript enabled if you don't have
JavaScript enabled then in today's day
and age that's just too bad I know that
there's a lot of people that say well
you'd be surprised at how many people
don't have JavaScript enabled and I
would say well then they need to get
with the times because JavaScript is
what makes the web go around so if you
wanted to create some sort of a default
landing page or something of that nature
that just says Hey in order to make use
of this application you need to have
JavaScript enabled then go ahead and do
that but as far as making all kinds of
really detailed tweaks to my application
to try to come up with a solution for
every scenario where someone might not
have JavaScript enabled I simply don't
feel like that's worth the time comment
below with what your thoughts are on
that but with that the next thing I want
to talk about is something called use
enhance and this is just a property that
we put on our opening form element just
like this use colon enhance
and then we need to import that so in
our script tag we just say import
enhance
from this is a dollar sign app slash
forms
like that and if I save this now the if
you leave it just like this then what it
does out of the box
let me just get rid of the parameters
there and refresh this page and put
together some values here
and if I submit you'll see that the form
still goes through the value comes back
but there's no longer a full page reload
happening
so that's pretty sweet that allows us to
quickly and easily remove that full page
reload by just putting using hands but
that's not all
we actually can further enhance our
forms you have this when you have the
use enhance in your application by going
use enhance and then we're going to make
this equal to some brackets and inside
of here a function
an anonymous function just like that
and this function has available to it
four things the form itself the data
from the form
the action itself
and a cancel function
so inside of our brackets we can now do
whatever it is you want to do
in my back end I previously was checking
if the value of age is old AF or if the
name is equal to Dave well you can do
those sorts of checks in JavaScript
right here in the front before the form
Ever submits so let's just do that here
what that would look like would be if
data.get
and then we just put whatever value in
wrapped in strings this is equal to the
name of the input in your form you have
access to all of them it just pulls the
value of that out super sweet nice and
straightforward so if that's equal to
Dave then we can make use of this
built-in function called cancel and just
cancel
just like that
so if I give this a save
and I run this now
let me first clear it out actually I'll
just refresh
I'll refresh that out and now we'll put
in Dave
and if I hit submit you'll see nothing
happens there's no reload because we're
using enhance and there's also no values
coming back because the JavaScript is in
that enhance is actually doing that
check and because it's Dave we're
running that cancel function and that's
it it's it's canceled the form action no
longer triggers all the way there is so
much more that you can do with this I
will link to the documentation in the
description of this video I just wanted
to cover the types as requested and I
also wanted to show you guys the use
enhance super helpful I hope that you
guys have found this video helpful if
you did please like And subscribe
comment below with your thoughts do you
guys make changes in your applications
for those who are not running JavaScript
I don't let me know below take care and
as always have a great day